Register a custom domain
Create 2 S3 bucket
One Bucket will be used to store the website content
Another Bucket will be used for redirection
Uploading website contents to the bucket
Configure access policy for the buckets
Test the domain endpoint
configure DNS records
Testing website
Improving performance of the website using Cloudfront


Using S3 we cannot host an website with HTTPS , So we need to use Cloudfront to serve the website hosted in S3 with HTTPS.
Also we need to host the domain using Route 53 , Only then the domain works with the cloudfront.

To setup the static website , We will be using the following AWS services.

Route 53
S3 Buckets
Cloudfront
AWS Certificate manager


Route53 public hosted zone

then create 2 s3 buckets

with 
destroyerohith.online which is used to redirect to the main bucket
www.destroyerohith.online as a main bucket which is having the static content inside init

main bucket 
static web site hosting
and make the bucket public access


bucket policy



{
       "Version": "2012-10-17",
       "Statement": [
          {
             "Sid": "AddPerm",
             "Effect": "Allow",
             "Principal": "", 
             "Action": "s3:GetObject", 
             "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::www.destroyerohith.online/*"
          }
      ]
}



open second bucket
properties

static web hosting

redirect requests then choose https

then deal with amazon acm

for ssl

then


Now Its time to create distribution for fitdevops.in.

Follow the same procedure as shown above and get the static website endpoint , Copy the endpoint without http.

The origin domain name should be fitdevops.in.s3-website.ap-south-1.amazonaws.com (without www)

It will generate the Origin ID.

And for the Viewer protocol policy , Redirect HTTP to HTTPS

This image has an empty alt attribute; its file name is Screenshot-from-2020-05-30-21-54-28.png
And for Alternate Domain name (CNAMEs) , Enter the domain name i.e., fitdevops.in (without www).

Select the certificate which you have generated and apply it here.

Once the above settings are configured , Click Create distribution

Now that we have hosted the static website using S3 , ACM and cloudfront.




create cloudfront distributions

We need to create 2 cloudfront distributions. One for each S3 buckets.
And then choose Web as the delivery method for the contents.

Under Origin Settings , provide the origin domain name of the main S3 bucket i.e www.fitdevops.in.

To get the origin domain name of Main S3 bucket , Go to S3 console , Click the bucket and then select Properties

and then click Static website hosting , You will find the endpoint there, Copy the endpoint without http.

Now go to cloudfront and paste the origin domain name which you have copied.

And origin ID will be generated automatically.

And for the Viewer protocol policy , Redirect HTTP to HTTPS

S3
And for Alternate Domain name (CNAMEs) , Enter the domain name i.e., www.fitdevops.in.

S3
For SSL Certificate , We need to choose Custom SSL certificate ,

If you havn’t created certificate in N.Virginia using AWS certificate Manager , Then you wont be able to apply SSL certificate for the distribution.

S3
Following the above Generating SSL Certificate procedure , create the certificate in the N.Virginia region.

Once the certificate is generated and applied here, Click Create distribution.

Now Its time to add the DNS records for the domain names with their respective cloudfront distributions.

Login to Route53 console , Here we are going to create A records for the domain names pointing to cloudfront distributions.

The following records should be created as follows.

We should create A record for www.fitdevops.in pointing to the cloudfront distribution of www.fitdevops.in

We should create A record for fitdevops.in pointing to the cloudfront distribution of fitdevops.in


Create S3 bucket with the website contents and the bucket will be private which is by default
Generate the SSL certificate using the same procedure
Create cloudfront distribution and the Origin domain name should be the S3 bucket
Restrict bucket access should be Yes
Grant Read Permissions on Bucket : Yes, Update Bucket Policy
Viewer Protocol Policy- Redirect HTTP to HTTPS
Alternate domain names (CNAMES) – fitdevops.in www.fitdevops.in
Apply the SSL certificate which was generated for the domain using ACM
The Default Root object should be index.html
Once the cloudfront distribution is successfully deployed.
Add the DNS A records pointing to cloudfront distribution alias to fitdevops.in and
Add CNAME record from www.fitdevops.in to fitdevops.in